doc/source/axes.rst, before:

.. ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.. Copyright 2016 Nervana Systems Inc.
.. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.. you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.. You may obtain a copy of the License at
..
..      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
..
.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.. distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
.. WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
.. See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
.. limitations under the License.
.. ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Axes
****

Introduction
------------

An ``Axis`` labels a dimension of a tensor. The op-graph uses
the identity of ``Axis`` objects to pair and specify dimensions in
symbolic expressions. This system has several advantages over
using the length and position of the axis as in other frameworks:

1. **Convenience.** The dimensions of tensors, which may be nested
deep in a computation graph, can be specified without having to
calculate their lengths.

2. **Safety.** Axis labels are analogous to types in general-purpose
programming languages, allowing objects to interact only when
they are permitted to do so in advance. In symbolic computation,
this prevents interference between axes that happen to have the
same lengths but are logically distinct, e.g. if the number of
training examples and the number of input features are both 50.

3. **Generic.** The order of axes for multi-dimensional tensors do not
imply a specific data layout or striding, making the graph specification
compatible across different hardware with different constraints.

Core concepts
-------------

Axis and Axes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The ``Axis`` object represents one dimension of a tensor, and can be created with the ``ng.make_axis`` method.

  ::

    H = ng.make_axis(length=3, name='height')
    W = ng.make_axis(length=4, name='width')

For tensors with multiple dimensions, we create an ``Axes`` passing in a list of individual ``Axis`` objects. Note that
the ordering does *not* matter in specifying the axes, and has no bearing on the eventual data layout during execution. See Properties
for a full description of axes properties.

  ::

    axes = ng.make_axes([H, W])

We use ``Axes`` to define the shape of tensors in ngraph. For example,

  ::

    image = ng.placeholder(axes)

We can also delay the specification of the axis length.

  ::

    H = ng.make_axis(length=3, name='height')
    W = ng.make_axis(length=4, name='width')
    image = ng.placeholder([H, W])
    H.length = 3
    W.length = 4

Semantics
---------

In the nervana graph, our axis design is very flexible. Axes can be given arbitrary names and the ordering of the axes does not matter. Sometimes, however, axes need to have additional semantic information provided to operations.

Properties
----------

1. The order of Axes does not matter.

  - Two tensors ``x`` and ``y`` are considered having the same type if

    - ``x`` and ``y`` have the same number of axes and same set of axes
    - After shuffling of ``y``'s axes to be the same order of ``x``'s, the
      underlying values are the same.

  - We can check element-wise tensor equality using ``ng.equal()``. ::

      import numpy as np
      import ngraph as ng
      import ngraph.transformers as ngt

      H = ng.make_axis(length=2)
      W = ng.make_axis(length=3)
      np_val = np.random.rand(2, 3)
      x = ng.constant(np_val, [H, W])
      y = ng.constant(np_val.T, [W, H])
      z = ng.equal(x, y)

      trans = ngt.make_transformer()
      comp = trans.computation([z])
      z_val = comp()[0]
      print(z_val)
      # [[ True  True  True]
      #  [ True  True  True]]

2. An axis can occur at most once in the axes of a tensor.

  For example: ::

      H = ng.make_axis(length=2)
      W = ng.make_axis(length=2)
      x = ng.constant(np.ones((2, 2)), [H, H])  # throws exception
      x = ng.constant(np.ones((2, 2)), [H, W])  # good

3. Axes have context

  A set of standard neon axes are defined for neon frontends.

  - Axes roles

  ::

    ar = Namespace()
    ar.Height = ng.make_axis_role()
    ar.Width = ng.make_axis_role()
    ar.Depth = ng.make_axis_role()
    ar.Channel = ng.make_axis_role()
    ar.Channelout = ng.make_axis_role()
    ar.Time = ng.make_axis_role()

  - Image / feature map

  ::

    ax = Namespace()
    ax.N = ng.make_axis(name='N', docstring="minibatch size")
    ax.C = ng.make_axis(roles=[ar.Channel], docstring="number of input feature maps")
    ax.D = ng.make_axis(roles=[ar.Depth], docstring="input image depth")
    ax.H = ng.make_axis(roles=[ar.Height], docstring="input image height")
    ax.W = ng.make_axis(roles=[ar.Width], docstring="input image width")

  - Filter (convolution kernel)

  ::

    ax.R = ng.make_axis(roles=[ar.Height], docstring="filter height")
    ax.S = ng.make_axis(roles=[ar.Width], docstring="filter width")
    ax.T = ng.make_axis(roles=[ar.Depth], docstring="filter depth")
    ax.J = ng.make_axis(roles=[ar.Channel], docstring="filter channel size (for crossmap pooling)")
    ax.K = ng.make_axis(roles=[ar.Channelout], docstring="number of output feature maps")

  - Output

  ::

    ax.M = ng.make_axis(roles=[ar.Depth], docstring="output image depth")
    ax.P = ng.make_axis(roles=[ar.Height], docstring="output image height")
    ax.Q = ng.make_axis(roles=[ar.Width], docstring="output image width")

  - Recurrent

  ::

    ax.REC = ng.make_axis(name='R', roles=[ar.Time], docstring="recurrent axis")

  - Target

  ::

    ax.Y = ng.make_axis(docstring="target")


Axes Operations
---------------
``Axes`` has ``list`` and ``set`` behaviors at the same time. ``Axes`` are
internally stored and can be used as ``list``, while we also have use cases of
``Axes`` as ``set``. Here's a list of supported operations by ``Axes`` and their
expected behavors.

- ``__add__``: list operation, concatenated axes, throws exception when there
  are Axis duplications
- ``__sub__``: set operation, returns the ordered set difference of axes
- ``__or__``: set operation, returns ordered set union of axes
- ``__and__``: set operation, returns ordered set intersection of axes
- ``__eq__``: list operation, true if each ``Axis`` are matching and in same
  order
- ``__ne__``: list operation, true if not all ``Axis`` are matching or in
  different order
- ``is_sub_set``, ``is_super_set``, ``is_equal_set`` and ``is_not_equal_set``:
  set operations


Elementwise Binary Ops
----------------------

- When matches, output the same axis. ::

  (H,) + (H,) -> (H,)
  (H, W) + (H, W) -> (H, W)

- Automatic broadcasting / dim shuffle, the output axis order determined by input
  axis order of the left and right operands. ::

  (H, W) + (H,) -> (H, W)
  (H, W) + (W,) -> (H, W)
  (H, W) + (W, N) -> (H, W, N)
  (H, W) + (N, W) -> (H, W, N)
  (C, H) + (W, H, N) -> (C, H, W, N)

- Commutative property is as usual, though axis order of the equivalent tensors
  can be different. ::

  (H,) + (W,) -> (H, W)
  (W,) + (H,) -> (W, H)
  (C,) + (H, W) -> (C, H, W)
  (H, W) + (C,) -> (H, W, C)

  In the following example, ``z`` from left and right are equivalent, although
  the axis orders are different.

  ::

    x = ng.constant(np.ones((2, 3)), [H, W]) | x = ng.constant(np.ones((2, 3)), [H, W])
    y = ng.constant(np.ones((3, 2)), [W, H]) | y = ng.constant(np.ones((3, 2)), [W, H])
    z = x + y                                | z = y + x  # <== changed order
                                             |
    trans = ngt.make_transformer()           | trans = ngt.make_transformer()
    comp = trans.computation([z])            | comp = trans.computation([z])
    z_val = comp()[0]                        | z_val = comp()[0]
    print(z_val)                             | print(z_val)
    print(z_val.shape)                       | print(z_val.shape)
    -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Output:                                  | Output:
    [[ 2.  2.  2.]                           | [[ 2.  2.]
     [ 2.  2.  2.]]                          |  [ 2.  2.]
    (2, 3)                                   |  [ 2.  2.]]
                                             | (3, 2)

- Associative property is as usual. ::

  ((H,) + (W,)) + (N,) -> (H, W) + (N,) -> (H, W, N)
  (H,) + ((W,) + (N,)) -> (H,) + (W, N) -> (H, W, N)

- Distributive property is as usual. ::

  (H,) * ((W,) + (N,)) = (H,) * (W, N) = (H, W, N)
  (H,) * (W,) + (H,) * (N,) = (H, W) * (H, N) = (H, W, N)


Dot Operation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When two tensors are provided to a multi-axis operation, such as ``ng.dot()``,
we need to indicate the corresponding axes that should be paired together.

For example

  ::

    # 2d dot
    (H, W) • (W, N) -> (H, N)

    # 4d dot
    (M, C, H, W) • (C, H, W, N) -> (M, N)

    # swapping the order of the axes is allowed
    (M, C, H, W) • (C, H, W, N) -> (M, N)
    (M, W, H, C) • (C, H, W, N) -> (M, N)


Axes Reduction
--------------

- We specify the reduction axes in ``reduction_axes``. Reduction operations can
  have arbitrary number of reduction axes. The order of the reduction axes
  can be arbitrary.
- When ``reduction_axes`` is empty, reduction is performed on NONE of the axes.

Examples: ::

    from ngraph.frontends.neon.axis import ax
    x = ng.placeholder([ax.C, ax.H, ax.W])
    ng.sum(x, reduction_axes=[])            -> [ax.C, ax.H, ax.W]
    ng.sum(x, reduction_axes=[ax.C])        -> [ax.H, ax.W]
    ng.sum(x, reduction_axes=[ax.C, ax.W])  -> [ax.H]
    ng.sum(x, reduction_axes=[ax.W, ax.C])  -> [ax.H]
    ng.sum(x, reduction_axes=x.axes)        -> []


Axes Casting
------------

Use ``ng.cast_axes`` to cast at axes to targeting axes with the same dimensions.
For example, we might want to sum two layer's outputs, where they have the same
dimensions but different axes. Examples: ::

    # assume C1.length == C2.length == 100
    hidden_1 = ng.constant(np.ones((100, 128)), [C1, N])
    hidden_2 = ng.constant(np.ones((100, 128)), [C2, N])

    # if we add directly without casting
    sum_direct = hidden_1 + hidden_2  # sum_direct has axes: [C1, C2, N]

    # cast before sum
    hidden_2_cast = ng.cast_axes(hidden_2, [C1, N])
    sum_cast = hidden_1 + hidden_2_cast  # sum_cast has axes: [C1, N]


Axes Broadcasting
-----------------

Use ``ng.broadcast`` to broadcast to new axes. The new axes must be a superset
of the original axes. The order of the new axes can be arbitrary. Examples: ::

    from ngraph.frontends.neon.axis import ax
    x = ng.placeholder([ax.C, ax.H])
    ng.broadcast(x, [ax.C, ax.H, ax.W])  -> [ax.C, ax.H, ax.W]
    ng.broadcast(x, [ax.W, ax.H, ax.C])  -> [ax.W, ax.H, ax.C]


.. Axes reordering
.. ----------------
..
.. Use ``ng.axes_with_order`` to reorder axes. The new axes must be the same set as the
.. original axes. Examples: ::
..
..     from ngraph.frontends.neon.axis import ax
..     x = ng.placeholder([ax.C, ax.H, ax.W])
..     ng.axes_with_order(x, [ax.H, ax.W, ax.C])

Commit message:

Documentation for binary elementwise op axis matching

doc/source/axes.rst, after:

.. ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.. Copyright 2016 Nervana Systems Inc.
.. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.. you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.. You may obtain a copy of the License at
..
..      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
..
.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.. distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
.. WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
.. See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
.. limitations under the License.
.. ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Axes
****

Introduction
------------

An ``Axis`` labels a dimension of a tensor. The op-graph uses
the identity of ``Axis`` objects to pair and specify dimensions in
symbolic expressions. This system has several advantages over
using the length and position of the axis as in other frameworks:

1. **Convenience.** The dimensions of tensors, which may be nested
deep in a computation graph, can be specified without having to
calculate their lengths.

2. **Safety.** Axis labels are analogous to types in general-purpose
programming languages, allowing objects to interact only when
they are permitted to do so in advance. In symbolic computation,
this prevents interference between axes that happen to have the
same lengths but are logically distinct, e.g. if the number of
training examples and the number of input features are both 50.

3. **Generic.** The order of axes for multi-dimensional tensors do not
imply a specific data layout or striding, making the graph specification
compatible across different hardware with different constraints.

Core concepts
-------------

Axis and Axes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The ``Axis`` object represents one dimension of a tensor, and can be created with the ``ng.make_axis`` method.

  ::

    H = ng.make_axis(length=3, name='height')
    W = ng.make_axis(length=4, name='width')

For tensors with multiple dimensions, we create an ``Axes`` passing in a list of individual ``Axis`` objects. Note that
the ordering does *not* matter in specifying the axes, and has no bearing on the eventual data layout during execution. See Properties
for a full description of axes properties.

  ::

    axes = ng.make_axes([H, W])

We use ``Axes`` to define the shape of tensors in ngraph. For example,

  ::

    image = ng.placeholder(axes)

We can also delay the specification of the axis length.

  ::

    H = ng.make_axis(length=3, name='height')
    W = ng.make_axis(length=4, name='width')
    image = ng.placeholder([H, W])
    H.length = 3
    W.length = 4

Semantics
---------

In the nervana graph, our axis design is very flexible. Axes can be given arbitrary names and the ordering of the axes does not matter. Sometimes, however, axes need to have additional semantic information provided to operations.

Properties
----------

1. The order of Axes does not matter.

  - Two tensors ``x`` and ``y`` are considered having the same type if

    - ``x`` and ``y`` have the same number of axes and same set of axes
    - After shuffling of ``y``'s axes to be the same order of ``x``'s, the
      underlying values are the same.

  - We can check element-wise tensor equality using ``ng.equal()``. ::

      import numpy as np
      import ngraph as ng
      import ngraph.transformers as ngt

      H = ng.make_axis(length=2)
      W = ng.make_axis(length=3)
      np_val = np.random.rand(2, 3)
      x = ng.constant(np_val, [H, W])
      y = ng.constant(np_val.T, [W, H])
      z = ng.equal(x, y)

      trans = ngt.make_transformer()
      comp = trans.computation([z])
      z_val = comp()[0]
      print(z_val)
      # [[ True  True  True]
      #  [ True  True  True]]

2. An axis can occur at most once in the axes of a tensor.

  For example: ::

      H = ng.make_axis(length=2)
      W = ng.make_axis(length=2)
      x = ng.constant(np.ones((2, 2)), [H, H])  # throws exception
      x = ng.constant(np.ones((2, 2)), [H, W])  # good

3. Axes have context

  A set of standard neon axes are defined for neon frontends.

  - Axes roles

  ::

    ar = Namespace()
    ar.Height = ng.make_axis_role()
    ar.Width = ng.make_axis_role()
    ar.Depth = ng.make_axis_role()
    ar.Channel = ng.make_axis_role()
    ar.Channelout = ng.make_axis_role()
    ar.Time = ng.make_axis_role()

  - Image / feature map

  ::

    ax = Namespace()
    ax.N = ng.make_axis(name='N', docstring="minibatch size")
    ax.C = ng.make_axis(roles=[ar.Channel], docstring="number of input feature maps")
    ax.D = ng.make_axis(roles=[ar.Depth], docstring="input image depth")
    ax.H = ng.make_axis(roles=[ar.Height], docstring="input image height")
    ax.W = ng.make_axis(roles=[ar.Width], docstring="input image width")

  - Filter (convolution kernel)

  ::

    ax.R = ng.make_axis(roles=[ar.Height], docstring="filter height")
    ax.S = ng.make_axis(roles=[ar.Width], docstring="filter width")
    ax.T = ng.make_axis(roles=[ar.Depth], docstring="filter depth")
    ax.J = ng.make_axis(roles=[ar.Channel], docstring="filter channel size (for crossmap pooling)")
    ax.K = ng.make_axis(roles=[ar.Channelout], docstring="number of output feature maps")

  - Output

  ::

    ax.M = ng.make_axis(roles=[ar.Depth], docstring="output image depth")
    ax.P = ng.make_axis(roles=[ar.Height], docstring="output image height")
    ax.Q = ng.make_axis(roles=[ar.Width], docstring="output image width")

  - Recurrent

  ::

    ax.REC = ng.make_axis(name='R', roles=[ar.Time], docstring="recurrent axis")

  - Target

  ::

    ax.Y = ng.make_axis(docstring="target")


Axes Operations
---------------
``Axes`` has ``list`` and ``set`` behaviors at the same time. ``Axes`` are
internally stored and can be used as ``list``, while we also have use cases of
``Axes`` as ``set``. Here's a list of supported operations by ``Axes`` and their
expected behavors.

- ``__add__``: list operation, concatenated axes, throws exception when there
  are Axis duplications
- ``__sub__``: set operation, returns the ordered set difference of axes
- ``__or__``: set operation, returns ordered set union of axes
- ``__and__``: set operation, returns ordered set intersection of axes
- ``__eq__``: list operation, true if each ``Axis`` are matching and in same
  order
- ``__ne__``: list operation, true if not all ``Axis`` are matching or in
  different order
- ``is_sub_set``, ``is_super_set``, ``is_equal_set`` and ``is_not_equal_set``:
  set operations


Elementwise Binary Ops
----------------------

- When matches, output the same axis. ::

  (H,) + (H,) -> (H,)
  (H, W) + (H, W) -> (H, W)

- Automatic broadcasting / dim shuffle, the output axis order determined by input
  axis order of the left and right operands. ::

  (H, W) + (H,) -> (H, W)
  (H, W) + (W,) -> (H, W)
  (H, W) + (W, N) -> (H, W, N)
  (H, W) + (N, W) -> (H, W, N)
  (C, H) + (W, H, N) -> (C, H, W, N)

  Axis order is determined by the following rules:
  1. If one operand's axes is a superset of the other's, use that operand's axis
    order
  2. Otherwise order is determined by concatenating the left operand's axes with
    the axes from the right operand which are not present in the left operand
    (left_axes + (right_axes - left_axes)).

  (H, W, N) + (N, H) -> (H, W, N)
  (H, W) + (N, H, W) -> (N, H, W)
  (H, W) + (N, W, H) -> (N, W, H)
  (C, H, W) + (N, W, H) -> (C, H, W, N)

- Commutative property is as usual, though axis order of the equivalent tensors
  can be different. ::

  (H,) + (W,) -> (H, W)
  (W,) + (H,) -> (W, H)
  (C,) + (H, W) -> (C, H, W)
  (H, W) + (C,) -> (H, W, C)

  In the following example, ``z`` from left and right are equivalent, although
  the axis orders are different.

  ::

    x = ng.constant(np.ones((2, 3)), [H, W]) | x = ng.constant(np.ones((2, 3)), [H, W])
    y = ng.constant(np.ones((3, 2)), [W, H]) | y = ng.constant(np.ones((3, 2)), [W, H])
    z = x + y                                | z = y + x  # <== changed order
                                             |
    trans = ngt.make_transformer()           | trans = ngt.make_transformer()
    comp = trans.computation([z])            | comp = trans.computation([z])
    z_val = comp()[0]                        | z_val = comp()[0]
    print(z_val)                             | print(z_val)
    print(z_val.shape)                       | print(z_val.shape)
    -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Output:                                  | Output:
    [[ 2.  2.  2.]                           | [[ 2.  2.]
     [ 2.  2.  2.]]                          |  [ 2.  2.]
    (2, 3)                                   |  [ 2.  2.]]
                                             | (3, 2)

- Associative property is as usual. ::

  ((H,) + (W,)) + (N,) -> (H, W) + (N,) -> (H, W, N)
  (H,) + ((W,) + (N,)) -> (H,) + (W, N) -> (H, W, N)

- Distributive property is as usual. ::

  (H,) * ((W,) + (N,)) = (H,) * (W, N) = (H, W, N)
  (H,) * (W,) + (H,) * (N,) = (H, W) * (H, N) = (H, W, N)


Dot Operation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When two tensors are provided to a multi-axis operation, such as ``ng.dot()``,
we need to indicate the corresponding axes that should be paired together.

For example

  ::

    # 2d dot
    (H, W) • (W, N) -> (H, N)

    # 4d dot
    (M, C, H, W) • (C, H, W, N) -> (M, N)

    # swapping the order of the axes is allowed
    (M, C, H, W) • (C, H, W, N) -> (M, N)
    (M, W, H, C) • (C, H, W, N) -> (M, N)


Axes Reduction
--------------

- We specify the reduction axes in ``reduction_axes``. Reduction operations can
  have arbitrary number of reduction axes. The order of the reduction axes
  can be arbitrary.
- When ``reduction_axes`` is empty, reduction is performed on NONE of the axes.

Examples: ::

    from ngraph.frontends.neon.axis import ax
    x = ng.placeholder([ax.C, ax.H, ax.W])
    ng.sum(x, reduction_axes=[])            -> [ax.C, ax.H, ax.W]
    ng.sum(x, reduction_axes=[ax.C])        -> [ax.H, ax.W]
    ng.sum(x, reduction_axes=[ax.C, ax.W])  -> [ax.H]
    ng.sum(x, reduction_axes=[ax.W, ax.C])  -> [ax.H]
    ng.sum(x, reduction_axes=x.axes)        -> []


Axes Casting
------------

Use ``ng.cast_axes`` to cast at axes to targeting axes with the same dimensions.
For example, we might want to sum two layer's outputs, where they have the same
dimensions but different axes. Examples: ::

    # assume C1.length == C2.length == 100
    hidden_1 = ng.constant(np.ones((100, 128)), [C1, N])
    hidden_2 = ng.constant(np.ones((100, 128)), [C2, N])

    # if we add directly without casting
    sum_direct = hidden_1 + hidden_2  # sum_direct has axes: [C1, C2, N]

    # cast before sum
    hidden_2_cast = ng.cast_axes(hidden_2, [C1, N])
    sum_cast = hidden_1 + hidden_2_cast  # sum_cast has axes: [C1, N]


Axes Broadcasting
-----------------

Use ``ng.broadcast`` to broadcast to new axes. The new axes must be a superset
of the original axes. The order of the new axes can be arbitrary. Examples: ::

    from ngraph.frontends.neon.axis import ax
    x = ng.placeholder([ax.C, ax.H])
    ng.broadcast(x, [ax.C, ax.H, ax.W])  -> [ax.C, ax.H, ax.W]
    ng.broadcast(x, [ax.W, ax.H, ax.C])  -> [ax.W, ax.H, ax.C]


.. Axes reordering
.. ----------------
..
.. Use ``ng.axes_with_order`` to reorder axes. The new axes must be the same set as the
.. original axes. Examples: ::
..
..     from ngraph.frontends.neon.axis import ax
..     x = ng.placeholder([ax.C, ax.H, ax.W])
..     ng.axes_with_order(x, [ax.H, ax.W, ax.C])
