doc/source/installation.rst, before:

.. ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.. Copyright 2016 Nervana Systems Inc.
.. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.. you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.. You may obtain a copy of the License at
..
..      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
..
.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.. distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
.. WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
.. See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
.. limitations under the License.
.. ---------------------------------------------------------------------------


Installation
************

To download the source code, first run::
    git clone git@github.com:NervanaSystems/ngraph.git
    cd ngraph

We recommend installing inside a virtual environment.

To create and activate a Python 2.7 virtualenv::
    virtualenv -p python2.7 .venv
    . .venv/bin/activate

To, instead, create and activate a Python 3 virtualenv::
    python3 -m venv .venv
    . .venv/bin/activate

Finally, to build and install, run:
    make install


Getting Started
===============

Several jupyter notebook walk-throughs demonstrate how to use Nervana Graph:

* ``examples/walk_through/`` guides developers through implementing logistic regression with ngraph
* ``examples/mnist/MNIST_Direct.ipynb`` demonstrates building a deep learning model using ngraph directly.

The neon frontend can also be used to define and train deep learning models:

* ``examples/mnist/mnist_mlp.py``: Multi-layer perceptron network on MNIST dataset.
* ``examples/cifar10/cifar10_conv.py``: Convolutional neural network on CIFAR-10.
* ``examples/cifar10/cifar10_mlp.py``: Multi-layer perceptron on CIFAR-10 dataset.
* ``examples/ptb/char_rnn.py``: Character-level RNN model on Penn Treebank data.

We also include examples for using tensorflow to define graphs that are then passed to ngraph for execution:

* ``frontends/tensorflow/examples/minimal.py``
* ``frontends/tensorflow/examples/logistic_regression.py``
* ``frontends/tensorflow/examples/mnist_mlp.py``


Developer Guidelines
====================

Before checking in code, run the unit tests and check for style errors::

    make test_cpu test_gpu test_integration
    make style

Documentation can be generated via::

    sudo apt-get install pandoc
    make doc

And viewed at ``doc/build/html/index.html``.

Commit message:

rename reqts targets from <>_install to <>_prepare and put Python 3 instructions ahead of Python 2.

doc/source/installation.rst, after:

.. ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.. Copyright 2016 Nervana Systems Inc.
.. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.. you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.. You may obtain a copy of the License at
..
..      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
..
.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.. distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
.. WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
.. See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
.. limitations under the License.
.. ---------------------------------------------------------------------------


Installation
************

To download the source code, first run::
    git clone git@github.com:NervanaSystems/ngraph.git
    cd ngraph

We recommend installing inside a virtual environment.

To create and activate a Python 3 virtualenv::
    python3 -m venv .venv
    . .venv/bin/activate

To, instead, create and activate a Python 2.7 virtualenv::
    virtualenv -p python2.7 .venv
    . .venv/bin/activate

To build and install, run::
    make install

To add GPU support::
    make gpu_prepare

Getting Started
===============

Several jupyter notebook walk-throughs demonstrate how to use Nervana Graph:

* ``examples/walk_through/`` guides developers through implementing logistic regression with ngraph
* ``examples/mnist/MNIST_Direct.ipynb`` demonstrates building a deep learning model using ngraph directly.

The neon frontend can also be used to define and train deep learning models:

* ``examples/mnist/mnist_mlp.py``: Multi-layer perceptron network on MNIST dataset.
* ``examples/cifar10/cifar10_conv.py``: Convolutional neural network on CIFAR-10.
* ``examples/cifar10/cifar10_mlp.py``: Multi-layer perceptron on CIFAR-10 dataset.
* ``examples/ptb/char_rnn.py``: Character-level RNN model on Penn Treebank data.

We also include examples for using tensorflow to define graphs that are then passed to ngraph for execution:

* ``frontends/tensorflow/examples/minimal.py``
* ``frontends/tensorflow/examples/logistic_regression.py``
* ``frontends/tensorflow/examples/mnist_mlp.py``


Developer Guidelines
====================

Before checking in code, run the unit tests and check for style errors::

    make test_cpu test_gpu test_integration
    make style

Documentation can be generated via::

    sudo apt-get install pandoc
    make doc

And viewed at ``doc/build/html/index.html``.
